ABSTARCT:Human emotions are mental states of feelings that come off spontaneously rather than through conscious effort and are accompanied by physiological changes in facial muscles which imply expressions on the face. Non-verbal communication methods such as facial expressions, eye movement, and gestures are used in many applications of human-computer interaction, which amongthem facial emotion is widely used because it conveys the emotional states and feelings of persons. Technically, the project’s goal consists on training a deep neural network with labelled images of static facial emotions. Later, this network could be used as part of a software to detect emotions in real time.

In the machine learning algorithm some important extracted features used for modelling the face, so, it will not achieve a high accuracy rate for recognition of emotion because the features arehand-engineered and depend on prior knowledge. Artificial Intelligence has been witnessing a monumental growth in bridging the gap between the capabilities of humans and machines. Researchers and enthusiasts alike, work on numerous aspects of the field to make amazing things happen. One of many such areas is the domain of Computer Vision.

Convolutional neural networks (CNN) have developed in this work for recognition facial emotion expression. Recognizing emotion from images has become one of the active research themes in image processing and in applications based on human-computer interaction. Our project focuses on live images taken from the webcam. The aim of this project is to develop automatic facial emotion recognition system for stressed individuals thus assigning them music therapy so as to relief stress. The emotions considered for the experiments include happiness, Sadness, Surprise, Fear, Disgust, and Anger that are universally accepted.
